yo
bruh
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well during the best
week
ever indifferent off the jump hey
thank you for the 10 gift itself that's
wild yeah
yeah
in different ways like let's turn it up
let's go
what's going on everybody happy best
week ever uh we're you know what we're
not slowing down folks we're not so
we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna keep
this best week ever going we knew that
today was at least part of the best week
ever but i got i got some
little little surprises in the mix a
little a little a little extension shall
we say uh so
thank you all for being here hope you
had a really great weekend
what what a weekend folks
what a weekend
we had our microsoft sponsored stream
so many
uh good moments during that so many
raffles so many cool stuff that happened
gave away a laptop then we came back for
our friday with friends and we had nick
yo shout out nick exclamation point nick
in chat
uh thank you so much for sharing that
story and then
just seeing that kind of inspire so many
folks or help folks realize that there
are so many different ways and paths
that move in this journey and it was
just really cool to hear so if you
missed that on friday with friends it's
it's going to be fridays on discord we
had 700 plus people 700 plus people on a
friday and the day before
the day before we were we're all hanging
out with hello it's rufio the newest
member of the stream team 700 plus
people were there too
this community
is hands down
hands down one of the best communities
not only to learn how to code but on the
internet and we proved it this week
700 plus people
in a twitch stream just hanging out
doing some cold wars
then we had our microsoft sponsored
stream then we had 700 plus people on
discord to hear nick talk
then
saturday we held it down
on our place we're gonna talk about it
we held it down sunday we held it down
monday we were back with rufio
number one streamer in the category they
were number one streamer in the category
their past two streams number one
streamer in the category
let's go
w's all around this week
and then
we got today
and today's a special class it's a
little weird it's a little different
we're going to get into we're going to
talk about it but it's a little
different of a class tonight
we are going to be doing our resume
review
and to do this resume review uh we were
supposed to do it on monday but rufio's
stream was way better idea
coming through with the code wars from
beginning to getting on github that was
amazing if you missed it their vod is
live
and
what we want to make sure is that i
didn't want to do it
hey
bunny what's going on thank you for the
raid bringing the crew
388 folks that's wild
yo if you all haven't followed bash
buddy we've done the raid once if you
haven't followed yet make sure you go
ahead and give them a follow let me see
if i can uh throw this shot out here in
chat
you're missing out on some really good
streams we we just so basically we just
learned about the terminal right so we
learned about the terminal last class so
now we got we got a couple thousand
folks that need to come by your stream
and and learn and learn how to do it
right
we covered the basics now they got to
come through and do it right so let's go
ahead and uh let me let me see we can
throw this in the chat real quick
i'm going to grab this i'm going to copy
and paste it a few times
there we go
you haven't given them a follow yet here
when i'm gonna i'm gonna spam it a
little bit here
make sure you give them a follow
now that you know what the heck we're
doing in the terminal you gotta swing
through and watch their streams they're
they're
they're slicing and dicing they're using
tools
we showed that that that that weird
thing that happened we wrote our commit
message the wrong way and we got thrown
into that that weird text editor
they're they're balling at it so go go
ball out and watch them when you have
the chance
thanks for raiding hope i hope your
stream went well what were you all up to
today
yeah make sure make sure you swing
through thank you for the raid
all right we're doing our resume review
resume view is a little bit different
we're supposed to do it on
we're supposed to do it on monday
but i'm gonna delete this as soon as
it's over
as soon as this as soon as we're done
this stream i'm gonna delete it so
i figured out that if well i figured
that we shouldn't do it on monday
because we don't have everyone
but once we're done this tonight as soon
as it's done
gone done so neat it's gone
uh so the idea here is that we are going
to be looking at a good resume example
that i'm going to ask you all to use a
good template
and then
we're going to look through
some some folks that signed up to be
roasted
and uh
we're gonna go a little we're gonna go a
little hard i tried my best to hide
their names and stuff but we're gonna go
in a little bit and so we don't need
that staying up there
and the other thing is that all right
we're we're the uh we're the the we're
the the victims of our own success
uh we have a lot of people that are here
we have so many new folks that join us
each stream
and those folks might not know the the
ways of the hundred devs right they
might see a a a uh a lovely form on
somebody's portfolio site and try to
fill it out a hundred times just to see
if it works
they they they they don't they don't
they're not the they're you know they're
not part of the the cool kids you know
they they they
they're not kind
and so we don't want to leave up uh the
video
or the
uh
means for these folks to be found
elsewhere on the internet
so i didn't tweet today
and as soon as we're done we're going to
delete the vod and we hope that that
will simmer some of the folks
uh from finding us that aren't part of
our community so everyone that's here
everyone that came over from bash money
stream like we're we're cool
but there's some riffraff that get mixed
into it and we don't want that to to be
lingering so we're gonna do it and we're
gonna delete it
melody dev hey thank you for the gift it
subs how are your streams been i've been
seeing you i've been seeing you hope
they were doing well going well
thank you for the gift of subs all right
so
the riff raff yeah exactly bash
all right so
now we're now we got that out the way
let's jump into it uh we got some things
to do some things to talk about before
we get to our lovely lovely resumes
all right we're going to talk through
some stuff about 100 devs we're going to
review some resumes and then your
homework guess what is to do your resume
now we will have a full class
on how to get ready for the hunt the
hunt is what we call our getting the job
process
and so there's so much stuff that goes
into hunt that's not just a resume
but the cool thing about starting with
your resume it's a lot of these really
important concepts
a lot of these little like these very
important concepts we can start to
simmer on
we can let those uh
i thought you were telling me to do
something else
i was like leon you're a little off
today you need to go to
i just got it thank you
uh
we're going to
we're going to see a lot of this stuff
in our hunt classes but the resume
brings up some really important topics
some things about crafting your story
thinking about your past experiences
thinking through the things that you
want to highlight as you go into the
hunt so i want to do
a
very kind of intro to resume and looking
at some resumes and then i need you to
do it and i need you to start thinking
through some of these really kind of
meaty topics and we're going to see that
in a second but that's the reason why
we're doing a separate class on just the
resume we got 10 resumes we're going to
go through we'll do a laptop raffle and
we'll call it and you're going to use
that extra time tonight that we end
early with to actually do your resume
cool that'll carry us into the next
couple weeks where we're gonna be
looking at object-oriented programming
uh going deep into that and then once
we're done object-oriented programming
before we shift gears to
going into the back end
we will have a class or two on starting
the hunt the job search process getting
all the things we need to start getting
together so that we can be effective
when it comes time to get a job
cool
yeah no check-in tonight because i don't
want the as we said the riff-raff coming
in from twitter we want it just to be us
we want to make sure that we're we're
being kind to the folks that have
volunteered themselves as tribute and so
yeah no check-in
and we'll keep it we'll keep it in the
family no new friends exactly except for
bash bunny and the crew they're cool
though we've been there we're friends
already
cool
alrighty i would like to start off with
some questions i think we got through
some some big ones already so we'll do
like one one more question
and then we'll get into no apis no we
our our api class will be on thursday
uh because we were supposed to do this
on monday but we switched it up so more
people could see it
question of the day was were you able to
participate in our place
of course airrosti of course
whoa
look at these folks that were able to
participate that's wild
i had no idea with so many
but
all right that's cool i i have some
screenshots for those that weren't able
to join us i got some screenshots for
you we'll get to it
alrighty
no check-in we don't want the riff-raff
coming through twitter so no check-in
but if you haven't already
go ahead and show some love on that
microsoft tweet if you haven't checked
in from our last class they came through
they splashed out so please make sure if
you haven't already like and retweet
that tweet just because they showed out
for our community so let's uh let's show
them some love uh for folks that won
some stuff we've been giving out stuff
all weekend uh you'll start hearing back
from me uh like today and tomorrow
there's just a lot of like little kind
of administrative stuff we gotta do so
if you didn't hear from me this weekend
that's okay you're gonna hear mainly
from me probably tomorrow is when i'll
get through the bulk of stuff i got to
get your addresses and all that fun
stuff so we're still kind of we got a
lot to get through i'll get to you and
uh don't don't panic if you didn't get
something specifically this weekend
you'll get it by end of the day tomorrow
cool
this is the link you can also do check
in if you missed the microsoft link
cool
remember folks health first
we we decided to
go ahead and extend some deadlines so
that we could focus in on some of the
meteor topics that we have coming up we
have apis that we're getting deeper into
on thursday then we have object oriented
program that we're getting into deeper
and so remember health first we're
expecting some deadlines to give
ourselves some breathing room but please
this is the point in program where you
have to be taking care of yourself doing
your stretches right making sure that
you are doing some sort of pomodoro
where you're not just roasting your
eyeballs on the screen for 10 hours a
day right make sure you're taking those
breaks make sure you're letting your
eyes relax make sure you're letting your
hands relax make sure you're doing all
the things so you can go the marathon
not just the sprint
cool
remember no networking until may so all
of april i'm not expecting you to
network
uh so so you don't you don't have to you
don't have to hustle the networking
right now uh save your brain a little
bit use that energy to go into the
materials
also
don't hound streamers for for coffee
chats please
it's really weird when we go to a raid
and there's like a bazillion people
asking for coffee chats they don't want
to have coffee chats with you some of
them have been amazingly nice and have
opened up coffee chats but don't keep
hounding them in their in their chat
asking for coffee chats it's it's it's
not a good look at all so please
you don't have to network this week so
you don't have to do it
uh so no networking until may um
also shout out to a lot of the folks in
the twitch community that have done
coffee chats i'm thinking of mel true so
many folks have opened up their like
lives to help us and so
be cool
all right be cool
also show up for your coffee chats
if you can't make a coffee chat just let
them know that you can't make it don't
ghost people
i'm really convinced and the reason the
reason why
uh the reason why i didn't tweet tonight
and the reason why i'm gonna delete this
spot after is there a lot of folks that
aren't part of a hundred devs that are
now aware of a hundred devs right so
there are folks that use and see the
hashtag on twitter that see us at the
top of the category on twitch and so
they might not have been here for the
full ride and might not know the
the norms right and so
yeah some folks are ghosting i have a
really strong suspicion that they're not
really 100 devs they're just people
seeing that hashtag on twitter and then
using it so
don't be that if you are part of behind
your devs
right if you if you are part of 100 devs
hold yourself to that that good old 100
devs caliber make sure you're showing up
for coffee chats make sure you're
presenting yourself well so other folks
want to help and support this community
so many folks have seen how wonderful
and amazing this community is and want
to help and support you all so live up
to that so many folks opening up their
calendars giving us their time like be
respectful of that just so that more
folks do it right cool
especially after we questioned in our
place exactly we we
in difference that we were mentioned in
three different 20k plus streams exactly
so you don't want us to use 100 devs no
that's not what i'm saying at all what
i'm saying is that
live up to that to that moniker live up
to being a good contributor to 100 devs
if you set if you set a coffee chat with
someone
actually show up to that coffee chat
when we raid folks be kind be respectful
show love right that's what we do around
here and if we got to we're happy to get
you out because we don't need folks that
can't be kind that can't be respectful
so please set up a coffee chat
do the [__] coffee chat or at least
let them know that you can't make it and
when we read be kind right don't ham
people for things like that's that's
kind of weird
cool
all right
now this is this is like one or two
people out of the thousands that are
here but it has to be said
and if you can't do that you can't be
kind you can't be respectful you can't
be somebody that doesn't hound then get
the [__] out we don't need you here
our client deadline
[Laughter]
our client deadline was moved to may 3rd
so you have all of april to get extra
work done to get that client
to do all the things that we covered in
our getting a client class so know that
you have until may 3rd to sign on the
dotted line you don't have to be
finished on that work you just need that
signed contract of 200
or more
cool we also talked about for a lot of
folks in our community getting a paid
client might not be something they can
do due to visa issues or whatever it may
be so we mentioned two other
alternatives you can volunteer for a
grassroots org but you still do the same
process still a proposal still a
contract still getting payment which is
in the form of them being the best
reference you have ever had in your
entire life
you could also contribute to free
software
we posted this first timers only where
you can find
good helpful communities that want early
career engineers to help and support
their project that would also count for
your getting of the client and we're
gonna see today why getting one of these
three is so
important
all right we're gonna see why getting
one of these three is so important today
it's gonna be a big portion of our
resume it's gonna be a big thing that
helps you get past that
[Music]
sniff test
okay
uh we had a newsletter raffle today
we had a newsletter raffle today so i've
already grabbed the folks that filled
out the newsletter uh raffle
remember it pays to open the newsletter
folks today there was a raffle in the
newsletter i already grabbed all the
folks that submitted it before i pressed
go live i clicked plus go live i grabbed
the names and i put it so we had 1200
people that filled it out before we went
live on stream i forget every time
no worries but i already threw them into
a random name picker we're gonna go
ahead and do that 1200 people filled it
out before i even went live today which
is wild i see y'all let's go and pick it
three two
one
all right
maze skip maze
congratulations
uh i will send you a whisper uh because
you are receiving a lovely
100 devs
t-shirt
so you have a lovely wonder dev t-shirt
coming your way i will go ahead and send
you a whisper like i said i'm going to
try and get the bulk of all those
whispers tomorrow
so coming your way
is a lovely lovely t-shirt we're gonna
have a few more raffles later today
folks we have a few more raffles we're
gonna have a a lovely laptop raffle
before we do our raid at the end of the
day so lots of fun that we had still
the best week ever
all right
let's talk about our place for a second
i asked you all came it was a glorious
glorious day a glorious glorious weekend
uh i had so much fun hanging out with
all of y'all over the weekend uh
it was it was such a roller coaster of
emotions
from brokering deals with our germans to
the to the to the west
to uh holding off mexico from the north
to uh brokering
peace deals with poland and uh
so many other wonderful communities
rome uh who else do we we broke
good deals with just so many wonderful
communities that came together uh to to
build out some really beautiful stuff we
made a lot of friends a lot of folks
that were not part of our community that
were in our discord to like help
coordinate chibi girl exactly 100 geck
exactly so trolls gigi troll exactly so
many folks
that um
we got to meet and hang out with over
the weekend
so many so many factorio exactly so many
folks that that heeded the call when the
streamers were
riding rampant and we were able to build
some really cool stuff and it was just
really fun to see the community to come
together to place pixels
[Laughter]
can we place that we've broken
international treaties on our resume
hell yeah you can oh yeah we've got our
good homies the detroit lions before
they got taken over by h3 and then by
dream like oh what what a weekend you
had to be there
uh it's one of those kind of internet
experiences that doesn't come around
that often and so it was super fun
hanging out with you all being in the
voice channels
glad so many folks were able to
participate and we built some really
cool stuff so
the original og little leon
uh that we had to broker uh with a the
technical school from from germany we've
rebuilt and had our lovely little mini
leon uh we had the goomba
uh that blah requested we had this
lovely goomba that got put on our place
if you don't know what our place was
uh it was a
it's a it's a it's an april fool's thing
that reddit did in 2017 they brought
back this year basically anyone with a
reddit account can place a tile a one
color pixel every five minutes and so
you have all these communities that come
together to place pixels in five minute
intervals and so we're able to build
this first little leon then we're able
to build the goomba we had a bob at one
point and uh we had the bigger uh the
bigger leon that got built until poland
wiped out the wego get which was which
was a lot of fun
so three bobs exactly we had so many
other little things that popped up too
but these are some of the bigger ones
that i was able to grab throughout the
weekend and so it was just a lot of fun
to see all y'all organize and build some
some some really cool stuff
yeah it's it's a it's an experience i'll
remember for a while
yeah poland came in and wiped out the we
go get they were nice though they didn't
go any further they could have with
their numbers taking the whole thing
over yeah and at one point one of the
streamers i'm gonna mention their name
i've never been so heated over pixels in
my life
i was i was i was feeling some type of
way
i was like i should be having fun
this shouldn't be bothering me but when
you're somewhere just like trashing the
art of like small communities i was like
died this is
i was about to do some stuff that i
shouldn't be doing so
i i took some moments to chill
i was able to relax a little bit
[Laughter]
but at the end we had some really cool
stuff and it was a really fun time so
thank you everybody that was able to
stop by i think it was able to
contribute uh it was perfect timing for
the best week ever it was really a cool
collaboration that we could do i really
want to figure out other fun stuff for
us to do as a community now that i can
see so many of you all want to show out
we got to figure out to do some fun
stuff maybe some hackathons or cool
things coming up soon
all right
next big thing to announce
mayan wolf is officially joining the
stream team
we have another
wonderful stream team member i know a
lot of you have seen mine wolf streams
already from discord uh we rated them
after hellos rufio's stream it's
official folks minewolf is joining the
stream team and tomorrow will be their
first official stream a part of the
100th dev street team this person
shows out so much for our community
that it's an absolute privilege to have
them on the stream team
this person is already a sql developer
in their day-to-day life
and they're with us to pick up some
javascript skills but they're already a
developer in their own right so i love
that they can bring some experience to
the table they're an expert at kind of
just breaking down some more difficult
problems and the things that other folks
understand they've built some really rad
projects on stream and so their first
stream as part of the 100 dev stream
team will be tomorrow and please
please show out show out show up i
guarantee you're going to get something
out of this stream and i love having so
many varied folks on the stream team
because
i thought you'd do it tomahawk
tomahawk just said coffee chat jkjk uh
so
tomorrow 6 30 p.m be there it's gonna be
a good time we're gonna have some
raffles during that stream as well it's
gonna be a good time and um
once again like it's cool check out
these members of the stream team hello
rufio was great because uh you get to
see their process through a code war you
got to get some space repetition in when
they got stuck you could help answer how
they got stuck like it's just like a
really cool way to continue your
learning and then mine wolf is really
good at taking the stuff that we're
already learning in class and making it
practical like using it to build stuff
and so definitely stop by
as they build a lovely project tomorrow
alrighty that's super exciting that's
the best news tonight uh my wealth is
joining the stream team uh you'll see
them being able to post on the stream
team channel
and we'll be all hanging out there
tomorrow
so you're like leon well when i thought
today was the last day
of the best week ever well it's not
thursday will be the last day of the
best week ever
today we're going to do our resume
review we're gonna have some fun doing
that we got some more raffles we got a
laptop giveaway tomorrow is mine will
stream so that has to be part of the
best week ever and so we're gonna end on
thursday we're gonna come back
we're gonna do our apis we have a lot of
other raffles to get through during that
that class on apis
we have some of the bigger things we
still have to give away like best
project
some of the bigger awards that i got
some some good surprises for and then we
also have our next merch drop some folks
that they wanted like a day or two heads
up that we were going to do a merch drop
merch is not live today
which is not live today merch will be
live during thursday's stream so a lot
of folks said hey leon i love the idea
of birch i want me some merch but i need
one or two days to get ready um i need
to set up my paypal or whatever it may
be so merch is not today it'll be on
thursday which will be the end of the
best week ever but just because the best
week ever ends and we're done uh with
what was a monumental week doesn't mean
the fun stops we're gonna have more
friday with friends we're gonna have
more office hours we're gonna be having
mentor monday soon where we're going to
help folks that want to help others
come together so there's lots of other
goodies they're going to keep coming
as we wrap up the best week ever and so
thank you everyone so far for an amazing
best week ever like i said on the last
day of best weekend i do a lot of thank
yous there's so many people that make
this community what it is so that'll be
thursday we'll have tons of raffles and
be a lot of fun big deal merch all the
good stuff
thursday as we wrap up the best week
ever but
until then
let's talk about some resumes so
tonight we are going to review some
resumes
we're going to start off with
looking at a template that that you can
all use
and a lot of folks will try and do other
stuff they won't use the template just
use the template at least for your first
pass so we'll look at a template then we
are going to look um
we're going to look at 10 different
resumes we'll do the laptop raffle we'll
do a raid and then we'll end because i
want you to work on your resume tonight
i want you to take all the things that
we learned this evening together
and use some of that energy some of this
time to put it into your resume you are
all doing your networking you're all
getting to the point where you're
starting to have a little bit more of a
web presence you're gonna start pushing
things to get in github you're gonna be
in a situation where folks are going to
want to start asking about your
professional experience they're going to
start asking about
if you have a resume if they can pass it
along to someone else so it's important
to um to figure all that stuff out this
evening
cool so here is the template
uh for
the resume it is in the slides
and uh i can also put the link directly
in
chat
um
here is the link i think we actually
have exclamation point resume
that works let me see
i think we actually have a chat command
for it
if not i'll create one right now
all right hold on let's
copy link address
and i'm going to add a command one
second
boom
oh there already exists the command
resume
let's see
yeah it's already there so excretion
point resume is the link for the resume
and uh it should go ahead and get that
your way
let me go ahead and spam it in chat a
little bit so folks can get it
boom there we go
in case you need the link
you can always look at the slides too
and grab it from the slides but that's
the link it's that bitly link there
that'll take you to
the resume
cool
uh it might go down
google doesn't like it when we send too
many people to it
um and so
it might it might it might not load so
don't worry about it right now let it
chill when we get our first break
um it'll it'll load i've seen some
people saying woo i got my coffee yeah
whatever reason when we send so many
people to it it doesn't like it so just
chill for now uh we'll we'll look at it
together here live and then uh you can
take your time during the break to grab
it
cool limited edition resume template
exactly so so many folks say hey leon
do i need to buy a resume builder
do i need to buy a resume template no
use this one myself
and
we'll eventually kind of hear from this
person a bit more when we get to our
hunt
we have someone at resilient coders that
i i can only describe as a beast and her
name is stephanie and stephanie is the
one that helps all of our alumni like
lock down their jobs and so this kind of
template is something that
i have learned a lot of this resume
stuff i've learned from uh working with
this beast of a person that just really
helps all of our students to get jobs
and so yeah we call stephanie the fairy
job mother at rc and so a lot of what i
have learned has come from them and then
seeing
hundreds of students
hundreds of students get jobs right and
so a lot of this stuff is not like hey i
think this might be cool or like hey
this stuff is like i think this is what
your resume no
this is what i've seen helped hundreds
of people actually lock down a job
across all different types of interviews
all types of ranges so um this is
something that i've put some work into
but the fairy job mother has done the
heavy lifting and um i'll share their
i'll share their stuff maybe after clash
just so you can give them like a follow
on twitter definitely somebody you want
to follow because
they have some serious skills when it
comes to helping folks get jobs and i'm
going to hype them more as we get into
our actual class on how to get a job but
i just want to throw that out here so
you don't think it's just all me
this is a lot of hard work from some
other folks but the important thing here
is this has worked for a lot
of people
and so
when it comes time to getting this job
stuff
it's not stuff i'm making up it's not
stuff that i'm guessing about it's
literally something i've seen across a
thousand plus interviews across hundreds
of students that has been distilled into
this template so could you use something
else
yes feel free to i don't really care at
the end of the day this is what i know
works
so this is what i'm going to show you
and it's up to you if you're going to
give me that trust to try using it right
so that that's up to you um don't ever
let me get in your way of doing the
thing you want to do but this is what
i've seen work time and time and time
again and so that's why i'm showing it
to you that's why i want you to use it
so
when you you come to me
and in a couple months you're like leon
i'm not getting past that first stage of
interviews and i asked to see your
resume and it's not using my template
i'm gonna be like well maybe there's
something wrong with your resume right
so what we're gonna do
is we're gonna walk through why i think
this template is good
and then we are going to look at 10
other resumes and point out things where
i think they can improve and things
where i think that they are doing really
really good on so that's what we'll do
alrighty here is our
lovely resume
template
first thing
name at the top
we have our
our title of software engineer
don't shoot yourself in the foot by
doing your first version of the resume
with anything other than software
engineer eventually
you are going to tailor this resume to
every single job that you apply to
because remember we don't just click
apply we network our way into
opportunities and so while we're
networking our way into opportunities
we're going to wind up changing our
resume so if you are not in a location
where the word software engineer is
restricted then you should just put
software engineer on your resume if
you're in canada or some place where it
is restricted put the closest equivalent
uh to it
cool
alrighty
notice that there is no
photo
please don't put a photo on your resume
uh this is like one of the things that a
lot of a lot of recruiters i've talked
to recently
they literally can't even look at
resumes that have photos on them
like they're not allowed to because
they're afraid economists ugly no
they're afraid that they might get a
lawsuit for discrimination and so if
there is a photo
they will literally they literally are
like told that they can't they can't
accept resumes that have folded photos
on them so get rid of your photo off of
your resume um just because it will
cause you trouble with certain
recruiters yeah
yeah
and remember this is a very u.s centric
resume class
there might be certain things that are
that are standard in your country or
location that are not here so the bulk
of our a bulk of our folks going through
100 devs are in the u.s uh and so that's
why there'll be some things that this is
this this is just very u.s centric if
you're in in an area where they you have
to have photos then ignore that advice
yeah
cool
summary room the summary is is quick
short and to the point but is often one
of the very few things that will be
actually
uh read remember
does anyone know how long a recruiter
typically spends on a resume
how long do you think a recruiter spends
on your resume
i'm seeing 40 seconds 30 seconds six
seconds
six
six seconds
so you gotta get all the stuff
out of their view
that is going to in those six seconds
not enable you to pass the
sniff test and so you want bangers only
and you want to make sure that it's
clear concise and not something's going
to take up their time
i see a lot of folks that will put a lot
in their summary
don't very quick to the point here's a
summary in ours creative
detail-oriented software engineer with a
deep interest in ai
proven track record of creating
implementing successful front and back
end web applications looking to bring
skill my skills to a tech company with
global reach
so let's break down why this is like a
thing
i'm saying with a deep interest in ai
do
am i claiming that i am a machine
learning expert
or an artificial intelligence expert
no
but i'm hitting those keywords though
that's for sure i'm hitting those
keywords right now
ai's hot it's a good keyword it makes me
sound smart
i don't know i have to know to do
machine learning or ai makes me sound
like i know what the [__] i'm talking
about
right if i if i'm interested in ai maybe
i can handle your web app right
and so for somebody saying resume seo
yeah it's a thing
all of your resumes are going to be
passed through
a a computer
right
it's going to be uh it's going to be
passed through a computer we have this
lovely cv compiler where you can try it
i highly recommend once you've done your
first pass on your resume that you pass
it through the cv compiler see what
recruiters see when it's passed through
a machine
and so there are there is a thing as
right
there there really is a a machine that
is reading some of your resumes and you
want to have some some things on there
they're going to help
boost it in that in that
that metric and so ai is one of those
things and so i like throwing that on
here deep interest in ai because when
people think about this right so there's
two things that could be happening here
one you could be going through a machine
at which point you just got points or
more risk realistically a recruiter is
looking at this
right a recruiter is looking at this and
going oh this is somebody that's like
into computer science this is somebody
that is probably a good engineer right
if they're dabbling with ai they're
probably a good engineer
and so the idea here is that
you're you're doing two things you're
trying to trick a robot and you're
trying to trick a recruiter
you're trying to get them got in the six
seconds that they're going to spend on
your resume
right and so a recruiter sees that and
immediately they're thinking all right
better better person better candidate
then you say that you built successful
front end back in web applications that
probably is the jobs that you're going
to be applying for
right
probably the jobs you're gonna be
applying for so you check that box and
then looking to bring my skills to a
company with global reach and so this is
kind of generic some folks might tweak
global reach but the idea is that you're
just trying to like you like the reason
why you're applying the reason why
you're showing up is because you want to
work at a bigger company
that's it that's all you're doing here
you're saying hey i wanna i wanna
i wanna show up i wanna work at a
slightly bigger company because that's
going to be part of your story
when you
talk to recruiters when you talk to the
kind of the front line of joining these
companies
so much so about you getting the actual
interview is about the story as to why
you have shown up today
the story as to why
you have
decided to apply to this job
and one of the common things people are
going to say ask you is why you left
your previous opportunity and your
response is going to be well i want to
focus on a product organization or i
want to work at a slightly larger
company right that's one of the very
clear outs a lot of you are going to
have simply
freelancing
on your
on your resume and so if you just have
freelancing on your resume one of the
stories is hey
i'm tired of this freelancing grind
getting clients making clients happy i
want to join a product that people
around the world use i'm sick and tired
of freelancing of doing that freelancing
grind i want to join a company that
supports a product that folks around the
world use
right and so
this idea of the summary is the very
first part
of crafting your story and you really
need to think through
right you really need to think through
what is a plausible story
you shouldn't be throwing things out
there like i'm unemployed
you should be throwing things out there
like i'm unhappy at my current job you
shouldn't be throwing out things that
are negative in any way shape or for
shape or form you need to have a logical
reason why you're showing up today that
makes the person want to hire you
right that makes i need more money no
that's not a good reason right you need
to give them a reason why you're showing
up i want to join i'm tired of the
freelancing grind i want to join a
company that has an actual product that
i can grow in i can go deep on i don't
want to have to get a new client every
three months like i'm ready to join a
product team that that has great
customers and and treats them very well
right like there are so many things you
have to do to think through so one of
the very first things you need to think
through as you're thinking through your
resume is also thinking through like
your story and how does that story fit
into the summary so that people know why
you're showing up why you're interested
and always
always always always when you're working
on a resume or you're working on any of
this professional stuff always think
about it from the person across the
table from you a lot of folks snitch on
themselves a lot of folks talk about
themselves and not the best light this
is the one time in your life where
you're allowed to ball out don't be
humble talk your talk show the walk that
you've walked so do it take that
opportunity right
no room for for humble pie no room for
not showing the highlight reel you gotta
show out nothing negative no junior crap
no anything
you gotta you gotta you gotta make sure
that the person across the table that's
reading the resume in those six seconds
go oh this person's probably an engineer
has no highlight reel nonsense if you're
doing 100 devs you have an amazing
highlight reel already and that
highlight reel is going to continue to
grow as you go through the program get
that
i hate that that's like one of the like
i hate very things very few things in
life and the thing i hate most get spicy
real quickly
is people say i'm a horrible like like
not me personally but they talk about
themselves and they say i don't have a
highlight reel
and then they say i'm a terrible liar
because when you say that you're a
terrible liar what you are saying is
that there's nothing good about yourself
that you can put on a resume [__] that
if you've gone through this program so
far
you have amazing stuff that you can put
on your resume you have a highlights
reel and that highlight reel is only
going to grow so get that talk out of
your head get those words out of your
mouth they have no place going forward
if you're going through this program you
will have a phenomenal highlights reel
that'll enable you to stand out against
candidates like a hundred plus other
folks have done
right and so none of this i none of this
i don't know
what to put on here no we're going to
get there we're going to get there
together but get that self
doubt that self loathing out your mouth
that has no place
no place today or for the rest of your
life because if you're still here you've
done something that
thousands probably millions of other
people have not done
i was looking at so i think i mentioned
this during stream once before but i was
looking at um
cs50
cs50 is is hands-down
the one of the best it is the best
computer science course on the internet
and they actually published their
numbers like the folks that have gone
through the program right and made it to
the end
and so cs50 started with a hundred and
fifty thousand
a hundred and fifty thousand sign ups
over a hundred thousand people engaged
meaning like they came to like the first
class or so
out of those hundred thousand
one percent completed the course
to me what is hands down
one of the best courses ever made on the
internet
i actually think it was like slightly
less than one percent
less than one percent completed the
course
so if you are still [__] showing up
all 3 000 of us
you're doing something that thousands
hundreds of thousands of people have not
been able to do
so we got to get this talk out of our
brains i don't know how to i don't know
how to pump you up but
over the next few weeks you got to get
that out of your brain you have amazing
stuff that you've already built you have
amazing things you've already learned
and you can craft a resume that
highlights those things and as we
continue the program you're gonna have
stuff that nobody else in the game has
that are coming out of other boot camps
that are coming out of four-year degree
programs you're gonna you're gonna dance
circles around them you're going to to
to to to to just absolutely obliterate
them and so
we need to end this like now so that's
all i said my piece
you're probably gonna hear me do it
again when we get to our like our
our um
our actual hunt class but when we're
doing this resume you all will have
stuff you can put on here
no more of that
jason derulo
thank you so much for the five gifts
that subs hope you're doing well jason
gorilla do you want to come on on our
friday with friends i think people
really need to hear your story
hit me up
all right
let's keep going
anyone here could say something along
this line creative you are you've all
built stuff detailed aren't it you
managed to keep showing up that's true
software engineer you write code that's
true with a deep interest in ai switch
it out to whatever you have an interest
in if you don't like ai say vr you don't
like vr say something something else
right but the idea here is that we're
doing the things that help us stand out
proven track record and creating and
implementing successful front end and
backend web applications hell yeah
you've built front end applications
already you'll get to the back end very
soon
uh if you've used an api then you've
also built back-end applications
cool
looking to bring my skills to a tech
company with global reach you can
absolutely say that beautiful so we have
our summary that will help pass the
sniff test
and then you're going to notice we have
some other stuff over here we have our
contact
we have our email our portfolio our
github our linkedin and our twitter if
you're not willing i think everybody
here has a professional twitter or you
should at least have one
um and it's up to you if you want to put
that on your resume or not but it's on
there
notice very distinctly i've not put a
location
um notice i did not put a location
and that's that's that's on purpose
um some companies dismiss your
application based solely on the location
that you put
uh and if they if they need to know
where you are they'll ask but you don't
need to snitch on yourself before you
even get in the door so i didn't um put
anything yeah you won't see a location
on a good resume
cool
work experience you're gonna notice the
very first thing about work experience
is you're engineering work at 100
devs so you were a software engineer at
100 devs that is true you were all at
100 devs you were all software engineers
100 devs by the time you're in the hunt
we will kind of slowly start we'll
slowly stop talking about 100 devs as a
boot camp and we will shift gears
talking about 100 devs as an agency 100
devs is a real agency we have clients
and we will continue to get clients and
so you are all software engineers
at 100 devs
and so while you're at 100 devs
you will collaborate with a team of
developers to build modern and
responsive web applications using best
practices you've already done this if
you've come to our project nights you
have already collaborated with a team of
developers to build modern and
responsive web applications like that's
that's something that you've already
done
you've built semantically structured
full stack web applications you have
already done this if you've came the
project night you've already done this
applied agile methodologies like scrum
for project management you didn't know
you were doing it but there are some
portions of it that you've already done
and as we get to the end of program you
will all have worked on a project team
together so by the time you graduate 100
devs you will have your 100 hours
project you have worked on multiple
projects and teams so all this stuff you
will have underneath your belts
now you're going to notice we're going
to talk about recent projects
what you're going to notice about the
way that we talk about our projects is
that you should never talk about your
projects
don't you need a assert for scrum no you
don't i mean you can get certified in
scrum but you don't need a certification
to like use scrum methodology
all scrum is is like how you work with
other developers
cool
now
you're gonna notice we're gonna talk
about our projects as though they are
real clients
right and so the the clients we will
whenever you
build a project
from this point forward
never build a project that looks like it
could be a boot camp
always build your projects with
a client in mind even if there is not a
client
build a project with a client in mind
right and so
hip coffee co
could be a project i did during a boot
camp or it could have been a project i
actually did for a client called hip
coffee co
right and so the idea here is you just
want to be careful about how you talk
about stuff if a recruiter is only
spending six seconds you don't have to
snitch on yourself and make it seem like
you're in a boot camp if they ask you
don't have to lie you can say yeah
it was an agency with a training program
and i went through the training program
right but you don't have to snitch on
yourself out the gate and say that
let them dream
the software engineer of their dreams
and when they ask clarify but you don't
have to come out the gate snitching on
yourself
so always label your projects as though
they are real companies
talk about them as though they were real
clients
cashier can take coffee orders from
customers with their names baristas can
log into the app and see orders that
have been made mark them to complete
orders that have completed will note
which barista completed the order
all of you that graduate from this
program will have built this app as part
of a team so when you graduate you will
literally have this in your recent
projects
happy notes
users can log into their profile and
find their list of notes they can add
new notes through an input which they
can edit or delete all the notes in
their profile by the time we get done
our back end you will all have this
project
in your portfolio right and so
you might not name it happy notes you
might not name it hip coffee co but the
idea is that you're going to have
serious projects
that you've worked in teams with that
are live that people can play with and
you're going to talk that talk so that
folks
see them as real projects because that's
what they are
and then everyone's going to have a 100
hours project you're not going to call
it a 100 hours project right you're not
going to call it 100 you're not going to
call it the 100 hours project but it's
going to be a project you sink 100 hours
into
half of the folks
that got jobs last cohort
did not have technical interviews
because they did this stuff well
somebody looked at their resume looked
at their portfolio looked at their
linkedin and go huh there's no way in
hell that this person is not an engineer
brought them into the interview
talked through their 100 hours project
asked them a bunch of technical
questions we have a bank of over 300
questions that you will all memorize
right and they were able to talk through
that project and people go oh you built
this from scratch like you you you can
you know everything that happened in
this application you have all these
other apps you you have real people that
you've worked with like good enough boom
you get the job
right and
so you don't have it yet but start
thinking about what's your 100 hours
project going to be
is it something that you're excited to
build something that you as divocker
likes to say it can be something you're
excited about or something that you're
that you hate
and you want to fix it and so uh well
like i said this is not our first class
in the hunt it's just things that need
to start thinking through
um in terms of your resume but also like
get the gears turned into that when we
do get to the hunt you've already
thought through some of this stuff
and then we list other projects
here's where a lot of people kind of um
snitch on themselves
right
this is where people kind of snitch on
themselves
and
the reason why they snitch on themselves
is because they list like their other
projects
right
they list their other projects
a little catch-up crew have these group
projects uh yeah like i said we have
most of our group nights will be during
class time but we'll hold other times
where folks can work in groups as well
but you can also create a thread and
organize and catch up crew as well
you know
at this point you said it more times
than i have nah but you always gotta
give credit where credit's due because
it's amazing all right so here's where
most people snitch on themselves like
all of their like little apps they build
it just it just sounds like they're in a
boot camp and so instead of saying
virtual instead of saying slot machine
app you say small licks casino virtual
slot machine
let me clarify real quick
some folks will put
slot machine app on their resume
and some people will put small lakes
casino virtual slot machine
so tuck nato said so lie no what was a
lie there
what was the lie there
tell me what was the
lie that's what i want to call it
did poker stars lie when they called
their casino poker stars
did the wpt lie when they said wpt poker
app
no that's the name of their app
so why can't rs be small likes casino
virtual slot machine
get the [__] out of here come on now
come on now
people brand their projects all the time
so brand your project
maybe make a landing page for it
right come on now get out of here
don't actually leave i want you to stay
i just i want that idea to get out of
here
don't just name like just don't put a
project on there name your projects
every other business in the world names
their projects name your projects cool
los angeles stargazer society
apod web app with nasa api integration
i'm in los angeles i'm a star gazer
maybe i want it to be a society and i'm
going to build a nasa app uh guess what
we're doing on thursday folks
yes
guess what we're doing on thursday
we're building
an api that uses nasa's api
so don't just say nasa api website give
it a freaking name
right
everyone here has built the next app on
demand background color changer for
partner twitch streamer on demand
background color changer for partner
twitch streamer guess what
i'm a partner twitch streamer thanks to
y'all and you all built me a color
picker it's the first thing we did in
javascript so you could have said
color picker
like some of these
people people will be like leon i
applied to 500 places and i look at
their resume and it says color picker
bruh
what's a color picker why would any why
would any professional
software engineer put a color picker
on their resume
why
they never you got to think about it
from the perspective of a recruiter no
software engineer
worth their salt would put a color
picker on their resume
now
if you built an on-demand background
color changer for a partner twitch
streamer that's a little different
it's true you did you built it for me
so at this point when you're working on
your resume think about how the other
person is going to perceive it
i am always happy to let
a recruiter uh an engineering manager
somebody that's gonna be looking at this
stuff run off and paint the best picture
they could ever paint of me in their
head i'm not lying all this stuff is
true
i've done the work to brand myself
right i've done the work to brand my
projects you can't fault me for doing
that but if you want to paint a better
picture of me because of it i'm going to
let you
if you ask me directly sure i'll explain
what all these things were but guess
what it never [__] happens
nobody ever
maybe one out of a hundred interviews do
they dig deep and actually want to know
the nitty-gritty details because they're
spending six
seconds six seconds
so they're spending six seconds they're
not going to nitpick all this stuff
they're going to read it go this
person's a software engineer you move to
the next round and the folks that don't
do this the folks that get uncomfortable
with this part like only and i can't
i can't brand my stuff oh i can't do it
guess what you're not going to get a job
or it's going to take you way longer
than it would have
all right so start thinking
start thinking through
these things
right
keeping it real i am i get spicy on this
because this is the number one thing
people [__] up
this is like the biggest thing people
[__] up and it's the biggest thing you
know what it is and it's not
it's not that and we're going to take
our break soon don't worry and it's not
that they're [__] up
it's that they don't have enough belief
in themselves
that talk highly about themselves they
don't have enough belief in themselves
to brand their projects they don't have
enough belief in themselves to build
their brand
right
and so that's the sad thing that's why i
get so upset about this is why i get so
why i get so
spicy with it is because it's not that
these people feel this it's not that
these people don't want to do certain
things is that a lot of times with a lot
of my students there's something in them
there's something in their brain that
says i can't do this i'm not good enough
i'm not worthy enough i i shouldn't be
doing this i shouldn't be a software
engineer i shouldn't be applying and you
have to squash it out it's not true if
you're still here you're doing something
that hundreds of thousands of other
people weren't able to do you're
building amazing things you've already
built amazing things you have a story
that's worth sharing you have experience
that's worth putting on your resume and
you you you deserve
someone to see you in your light that
you already shine so amazingly with
right and so
when it comes time to putting it on
paper for some reason
we slip and i've done this in the past
myself too we slip when it comes time to
putting it down on paper and so
make sure
that you take some time and if nobody
else tells it tells you listen to me
if you're still here
you're amazing you've done something
that hundreds of thousands of other
people have not been able to do
talk your talk
put yourself in the best light possible
because you're worth it and you deserve
it
cool
all right
we need to do a break when we come back
from the break we got two or more big
things we got to cover
in terms of
the
the like the last part of the resume and
then we're going to look at 10 resumes
and go over it together we'll do uh some
wonderful raffles we still have the
laptop at the end of the day
so let's go ahead and do our our
five-minute timer but i think so i
actually already
born code thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
and
omo show 12 added two minutes to the
timer uh so this is going to be a seven
minute break folks seven minutes on the
timer
take that break
uh maybe try and pull up the resume
template if you haven't been able to do
it
and then when we come back from our
seven minutes we're gonna look at the
last bit of this resume and we're gonna
see some real examples i'm really
excited uh so let's go ahead and do that
we'll do our raffle afterwards
see you all in seven minutes i'll be
sure to run the ads so that folks
actually take a break if you're new
around here and you don't know what i
mean by break please we're in a marathon
not a sprint if you're able get up move
around hydrate let your eyes relax until
it's not the screen i will be back
together in seven minutes
i see you in different slurs
i gotta run these ads
exactly as melody said make sure you
stretch drink your water please i'm
gonna run the ads
i'll see you all very shortly
history
we want you to give everyone who
graduates one dollar
uh so
we actually thought about doing that
last call
that's why we actually get a client
though but um we actually we actually
considered that idea which i thought was
pretty funny
all right folks come on back come on
back
alrighty
well no it's just so that uh you can say
that you're a paid software engineer but
if you you already most of you will be
paid software engineers which is pretty
funny
alrighty
come on back come on back
let's go uh come back to a raffle let's
come back to a raffle so let me go and
set that up one second
one second
alrighty
ooh
they're like crinkly in the music right
now that
all right giveaways open go ahead
exclamation point raffle get in here
exclamation point raffle to get in here
and we're gonna finish up looking at
this resume and then look at some
examples
i miss like a raid or something
how many people here most of my people
alrighty
another 10
15 seconds 15 seconds
we don't get got we go
get all right i'm gonna go ahead and
close it out
and we're gonna pick our winner
[Laughter]
it's rigged
blah blah
congrats blah
on the raffle
congratulations i gotta do another one i
can't do that
well you're gonna get your you're
already getting your mod hoodie but
you'll also get your t-shirt
you'll get your official t-shirt as well
but i feel people would would say that
that's rigged if we let that stand so
we gotta do another one
[Laughter]
all right so that's complete
and let me go ahead i'm going to do
another one here
i'm going to keep this open for 30
seconds exposure point raffle if you
want to get in here folks for another
100 devs t-shirt 100
t-shirts that's hilarious
well the funny thing is that happened to
me too
um that happened on roofia's stream i
think it was yeah it was a rufio stream
or
might have been i forget him
where they they ran the raffle and i
entered it just to run it and i won
that was funny all rigged
alrighty can i close this one up
let me know and and we're gonna go ahead
and pick a winner
tony g three two three eight eight
congrats uh you'll be getting messages
from me tomorrow setting up how to get
you these lovely t-shirts so tony g 32
388 congratulations
you want to know how i know
some of you all come back a little after
the timer's done
some of you all came back a little a
little a little after the timer because
there were more there are more raffles
on the second one entries than they were
on the first one
people just took their time they saw
seven minute timer that turned into 10.
alrighty congrats tony g
we complete that
down here
beautiful
alrighty folks
let's go ahead and finish looking at our
resume template here let me chill the
music
and
get into it
all right so we talked about our first
work experience being software engineer
at 100 devs we have our projects we've
named all of our smaller projects
there's not as much as a
bootcamp
smell
and then
you're gonna have at least
two other positions
at least two other positions on your
resume
most resumes could be fine with just
three
if you have a really established work
history that's fine
i've had lots of folks with really
established work histories and they
still keep it to three
it's up to you if you want to do more
but
three's enough
okay
because they're only spending
six seconds
now sometimes they might want to ask
questions they'll follow up if they have
more questions but sticking to these
three is often really helpful and it's
even more helpful if um
you
don't have an extensive work history
right and so or if you have a work
history that
might might have had a gap these three
are helpful
okay
so
the next one will be your consulting
so your consulting started
when you first started learning or
thinking about learning to code so if
you ever thought about learning to code
that's typically when you start your
consulting time uh if you have a big gap
in your resume that was your consulting
time and as long as you get one client
then you can you can put as big as a
consulting time as you need on there
some folks feel like they they have
bigger gaps but if you wrote some html
10 years ago then you could literally
have been freelancing that whole time
because your first code was written 10
years ago
that's uh that's a little i mean that
that that's kind of how you can do it if
you have a bigger gap this is this is
how you fill that gap
and so if you have a gap on your resume
right if you're worried about that gap
this is how you fix that gap you are
freelancing
and as long as you have one actual
client that people can actually talk to
that would like pick up the phone and
say yeah i worked with this person then
you can you don't you don't have to
worry about any gaps anymore
you just don't
right
and people right now
are the most
willing to forgive gaps that have ever
than any other point in time i've been
teaching the code for about 10 years
i've been helping people get jobs for
like five this is the best time ever to
have a gap on your resume because
everyone's like yeah there's a global
pandemic you probably have a gap or two
that's okay and so you can explain the
gaps as like hey i was freelancing
especially during the pandemic and
totally
totally fine this is like the best time
ever in the history of ever to have
those gaps because you had a global
pandemic
and you are freelancing so if you have a
gap it's really important that you get a
actual client that you can put on here
that you can describe what you did for
that client in detail and that somebody
would actually pick up a phone people
say hey leon what about references this
is where your references start that's
why getting a client is so important to
this process it's someone that will
actually pick up the phone
cool
um
how you describe your consulting is up
to you but i like created full stack web
applications and static websites for
different clients across small and
medium-sized businesses also consulted
on seo and social media strategy some
clients include and then you would list
your actual clients that you got
now the last one
is any of your previous kind of jobs
uh raise we're gonna talk about that in
a second we're gonna talk about
education in a second
um
the last thing could be anything that
you did
it really doesn't matter
uh you can put any of your past jobs on
here it doesn't really kind of
matter
um
what you did
and so you can put you were
did you did you ever like did you did
you work at a coffee company
right
you worked at a coffee company
and you like managed their like their
twitter profile then you could be a
marketing associate at that coffee
company right
um
one thing i don't recommend doing is
like really changing your title
um if that like if you had a specific
title right
in in some more serious background
checks those titles can be confirmed so
that's something to understand so what
some folks might do is they might put
their actual title and then maybe like
in parentheses some of the things they
did at that at that location right so
if you
let's say worked as a barista
you could put that
in like parentheses uh so it shows like
your actual titles there but the thing
that you that you did that you were
excited about at that at that company
right so maybe you manage their social
media profile and while you're there you
establish a strategy and communications
campaign that did x y and z so whatever
the highlight was right at that
organization you put that here
and everyone i don't care what you did i
don't care if you were a fortune 100 ceo
i don't care if you were
uh an animal wrangler in the sahara i
don't care if you were a priest it
doesn't matter you all have at least one
banger that you can think of that you
did at that company or a way to think
about it
that can communicate what you did there
right and maybe
tilt it towards what you're interested
in doing now
and this might be the hardest thing for
folks to think through
a lot of folks that i always say most of
my students have done pretty traditional
jobs a lot of my students have been
baristas they've been
cooks they've been
things and there's there's always
something some way that you can massage
that role
into something that you did positive and
then something that might lean into what
you did uh why why you're a software
engineer and for a lot of folks this is
where your story becomes really
important so let's say you were a server
at a restaurant like you're a waiter
waitress at a restaurant
you would talk about your time at that
restaurant as having a horrible time
with the point-of-sale system like where
you typed in those in those in those
orders every day you had to type in
orders you hated it you thought that you
could do you could make a better point
of sale system so you learned how to
code and one of your big projects you've
worked on is a point of sale system that
you're trying to sell to small to
medium-sized restaurants so you went
from a waiter waitress having a horrible
experience of point of sale system
learning how to code to your 100 hours
project being a new point of sale system
that you're actually going to try and
sell you don't actually have to try and
sell you just say you're going to try
and sell the small medium businesses
that gives you a plausible story as to
why you're showing up as a software
engineer
right and so
we're going to have classes on this
crafting your story you're we're gonna
have classes on how to frame anything
that you've done in the past in a
positive light but you need to start
thinking about it right you need to
start thinking about it now how can i
take what i did in the past and mold it
into a story as to how i got to where i
am now
all right and so you don't have to have
that right now something i need you to
start chewing on and something we'll
have a whole class on but this last this
third thing could be anything i don't
care what your past job was there's a
way to to make it so that helps you with
this new role
cool
maybe running maybe we can do that
all right
so like i said we're gonna have a full
class on how to do that like crafting
story it's something i need to start
thinking about right now
cool
all right the last thing i recommend
having on your resume is volunteering
i think the easiest thing to volunteer
for are conferences
and so just have one one thing here
that's like a volunteer experience
so that could be i volunteer at a
certain conference every year the free
software foundation conference every
year that was in person i volunteered
for the past couple of years
and they also helped with like their
mailing campaigns right and so
find something
that's in the realm of
either like a technical conference or a
local organization that you feel like
you want to contribute to that can be
something that you can talk about uh
during your interview as well
right so um there's like the the like
the charitable reason to do it but
there's also like the greedy reason to
do it having the the volunteer
experience gives you just one more thing
to talk about uh during the interview uh
no no non-code volunteering is great but
you want something that is actually
technical related
something that somebody else will be
looking at your resume and go oh they
also do code for america i do code for
america every every
tuesday right
like there are a lot of these like
volunteering things that
like people that are in tech are on the
in on right and so
it's just something that like helps you
find a common bond with the interviewer
and help separate your resume from any
other resume that doesn't have it
especially if you're local right
especially if you're local
uh
and like i said this is just kind of
like the first pass we're gonna have a
whole deeper class on like resume and
how to structure your job so there are
like a lot of specific questions about
it feel free to ask them but we're gonna
have other classes on resumes too
uh what about like
like if you were managerial beforehand
and now you're applying we've had
students that have gotten senior roles
right out of 100 devs
uh quite a few
uh a lot of times the like level that
you go into doesn't like
don't don't don't limit yourself uh if
you want to go straight to managing you
probably could if you did this process
right which i know sounds absolutely
wild but i actually do believe it um
and so this part of this process is like
crafting that story and if you've done
managerial things in the past you have
to bake that into your story and use
that as a huge value add to the company
that you're joining
the last things we have on here
are skills
um remember we talked about like the
computer reading your your resume
and so you want these skills here so
that if a computer is reading your
resume they like pass you on to the next
the next round
cool
so we have our skills
html css javascript react react native
node mongodb postgres oop web
accessibility
these are things that are pretty
standard you might swap in and out
certain things on here
but that's about it
the last part here is education
and i
don't recommend putting education first
unless you went to like a really strong
school
if you went to like an ivy league school
or something like that or a top-tier
recognizable school then you might move
um up your like your education to be
somewhere different
but if you kind of went to like a normal
university normal school
um
you kind of put your education to the
right-hand side and can anybody tell me
about tell me about what i've done
specifically here
anybody figure out what i've done here
no degree
this person doesn't have a degree
um but if somebody was spending the six
seconds that they were gonna spend on
this resume
would they know that they did not have a
degree
nah
they just wouldn't they would just see
umass boston and keep moving right
they unless they were specifically
trying to weed out for that question
they're just gonna go boop and move on
to the next thing
and so that's what i recommend you do if
you did not have a degree but you went
to school somewhere for a little while
you can put that on there put the years
that you were there
and then keep it moving if you do have a
degree you can put your full degree
there
if you have any like a like a masters
you can put your masters there
some folks that might have like military
experience you can put it like near this
area as well
you don't have to put gpa you don't put
any of that crap on there um you don't
have to do you don't have to put
anything on there that you don't feel
comfortable with remember
this is all about
passing a sniff test
if somebody really cares about certain
things there's nothing that you can do
that'll stop them from caring about
those things but what you can do is make
it a little bit harder for them to
figure it out
right if they really want to care about
care about it and they really want to
dig they will they'll ask you follow-up
questions but you don't have to come out
the gate snitching on yourself you don't
have to come out the gate like
immediately dismissing your resume and
so when you see these folks that say i i
applied to 500 places and i didn't get
the job it's because they have stuff on
their resume that the recruiter is
seeing in those six seconds and deciding
to not
to not move their resume to the next
round
like i said i'm going to show you how to
play the game it's up to you if you want
to play it
i went to a culinary school and a
culinary arts degree which i put you
should put that on your resume oh yeah
a lot of companies care about degrees a
lot of them don't
and even some of the ones that do say
they care they don't check
so it just doesn't it doesn't behoove
you to shout that somewhere in your
resume
what if you have no education past high
school you can leave education off of
your
uh resume
you just like not have it if you really
don't feel like you want to put anything
for education just don't put it
some folks will put certifications on
here
i'm not a big fan of certifications
unless they're like the media
certification so if you said leon i
don't have any education past high
school what you're one of the people i
might push to do
like a specific cert that might have
some meat behind it like an aws cert or
something like that just to have
something in that space but that's not
something i would do now for now just
leave it off as you get through the end
of program that's something you might
look into
but as a general rule of thumb i don't
put certifications on resumes um unless
they're like the really big heavy hitter
ones that like you had to take the test
and it took a long time to study for
yeah
what about
jobs that asks you to have a bs uh if
you've networked your way into those
jobs it sometimes just doesn't matter
how relevant are spoken languages and
where would you put them you can put
them in that like kind of this skills
area is where you can put languages if
you want
and different ghost says i didn't
complete high school no one has ever
asked me about my education or even the
bs requirements
so there you go one of the strongest
engineers that that i know that have
helped all of our folks here at 100 devs
that have amazing jobs
there you go
yeah so you can put you can put um you
can put languages here if you want what
about soft skills leave them off your
resume notice that i don't have like
microsoft word or like public speaking
right these are things that everyone has
they're not value ads on a resume they
don't you don't need to put that you
know how to work a computer um on your
resume like that that's okay like that's
assumed you're a software engineer
slightly a little bit higher bar there
in terms of like your technical skills
excel stuff like that doesn't belong on
a on a engineering um resume
leave off udemy corsair asserts yeah
don't put them on there that just
what is what is what is someone seeing
udemy cert smell like
think about that if you had if you
actually if you absolutely crushed the
resume
and then i saw you demi cert i'm just
going to think oh you haven't been
coding for that long wait a minute i
thought you were i thought you had
worked here here here i thought you've
been freelancing why do you have
like why do you have like this
this udemy cert
right like that you got to think about
it
folks don't want to hire
new folks like they just don't they
don't want to hire folks that are early
in their career they don't want to hire
engineers straight up boot camps like
whether whether you can do the job or
not
some folks have already made up their
minds about this stuff
right some folks already made up their
minds about this stuff and so
don't give them that ammunition
just don't let them dream what they want
to dream
get into the position where you're
talking to the engineers and then all
that stuff can come out later but you
don't have to put it on here where
somebody's literally spending six
seconds to decide if you go to the next
round
always think about it think about what
do you want somebody to see in these
first six seconds they can always
clarify they can always ask more
questions but in those six seconds what
do you want them to see so that they can
go oh this person's a software engineer
i want them to talk to the talk to my
team
let's do a few minutes of questions here
and we're going to start looking at some
resumes and see if we can put into play
everything we just learned
what about free code cam certs i don't
think they should belong on your on your
entry level
software engineering resume
you don't want i don't i don't i don't
ever have my students put boot camp
stuff
basic certification stuff that all stays
off because in those six seconds i want
them to think that i'm a software
engineer i've been doing this for a
while and i know what the hell i'm doing
so anything that might suss that out and
make them feel like they that that's not
true or that you're a newer developer
that that gets a pass for now
what about on linkedin i think this
stuff goes on linkedin too
what about a cover letter like i said
this is not our beginning of the hunt
class we're going to go in deep on all
the stuff you'll need for the hunt this
is just a resume to start getting these
ideas percolating
some of my engineering friends told me
that good companies will continue
software engineers ones as an investment
is that a wrong way to view the job from
our perspective no i think a lot of
companies
the reason why they look for entry-level
talent is because they want you to grow
in their way every company does all this
stuff differently they have their own
systems their own processes and so
sometimes when you have engineers that
have like a year or two of experience
they're already set in a certain way you
can have raw engineering talent build
them up in your way and that could be a
value add
should our contact info like our github
account be really professional name yes
everything is first name last name as
much as you can go unless for some
reason you can't use your name but the
close to your first name last name as
you can or a moniker that you use
everywhere is really important so some
people just go by a moniker but that
should be consistent across all your
stuff
what about soft skills management client
service probably not
they only have six seconds
ah great question should we stick to a
one page rule for resumes yes
i think some folks like notice that
there's no second page here i left it
blank just so i could say there's
nothing on the second page yeah one page
or less they're only spending six
seconds
if you can't if you can't craft a good
story that helps somebody understand
that you're a good entry level engineer
in that one page you have failed that
six second test
now this is a resume cvs and things like
that are different but for a resume try
and keep it one page
and there's some folks some people
that's out there nah they're they're not
spending that much time on this one page
and it's not it's not because you don't
want to have more stuff on there it's
because folks that have multiple pages
means that they haven't put the time or
effort in to consolidate and really
think through what their bangers are and
what they want somebody that's only
spending a little bit of time on their
resume to walk away with
what if my education is over 20 years
old just leave the numbers off of
it yeah just leave the dates off of it
what about cover pages we don't i don't
i don't really ever do cover pages
sometimes they're like cover letters or
cover emails but um we'll talk about
that later
uh where can we go to do our
participating projects we have project
nights instead of class sometimes we do
project nights
uh how do you add freelance products do
you put a link to the work uh yeah i
think a lot of this stuff can be linked
so if any of this stuff is live and like
hosted on say like netlify you can turn
these into actual links and a lot of
times if you don't have the code live
you'll link to your github we're going
to have a template that you're going to
use for every single github repo so that
it looks really nice and really
professional and so that's something
i'll share with you all soon
so every single every single project you
work on is going to have a really nice
github page that's really like knocks
people's socks off and so i'll share
that template with you soon
and so a lot of these might be links to
your github
design skills yeah that could definitely
go on a resume too if you're like a
designer or something like that that
should go on there
uh if we can't call ourselves software
news we put full stack web developer yes
i think that's probably the next best
step
any fonts to stay away from
just use standard fonts don't get too
odd with it if you're using the template
just use what the template gives you uh
yeah it should definitely be a pdf i
think pdf being able to have it in pdf
is really important don't be sending
like a word doc to folks send a pdf to
folks
two universities didn't get a degree
either should i put both sure why not
um if i worked for somebody that was a
worldwide company uh you can just put
the port of call for your cruise ship or
remote
is what people put these days
so i put my resume online for potential
employees i think it's important to have
it host it somewhere that's easily
shareable
uh bullet points instead of paragraphs
for all work experience uh if you're
following my template you'll notice that
there's only one that has like the
it's like the first one has bullet
points and then kind of the other ones
are kind of just smaller because you're
trying to save space if you if you need
to fill some space you can do more
bullet points
should you include technical schools
such as like welding or cdl if that's
part of your story so a lot of times
people say should i include this or that
well you got to think does it does it
contributes to the story as to why
you're a software engineer so if you're
ever um
if you're ever trying to figure out if
something should be on your resume or
not is well hey
does it contribute to the story i'm
presenting to a recruiter to a hiring
partner as to why i'm a good software
engineer how i got here it doesn't make
sense always think about if it makes
sense
if i volunteered for a long time and
they offered me a paid position can i
put volunteer and paid i would probably
still list it as volunteer because
some people really do
[Music]
do deeper background checks that will
verify your employment history
what if my employment deployments from a
different country than us that's totally
fine
should we keep our age off the resume uh
where is my age on this resume there's
no age on this resume um the only the
only way you can maybe suss out age is
like educational timeline but if you
really feel that you might be
discriminating against for your age you
can just leave that time off of there
like your degree time
how about personal interest now you've
only got six seconds don't cloud it with
stuff that doesn't help you seal the
deal
everything
if you're ever asking yourself should
this be on there should this not be on
there say if i only had six to ten
seconds to read this resume would that
stuff help convince me to give you the
interview most of the time the answer is
no
definitely always a pdf yeah always a
pdf
uh i'm currently a truck driver i feel
like it's harder to transition for folks
coming from blue collar that's all cap
my best students the students that
always have the best outcomes literally
when i i've tracked this i looked at the
jobs before
versus the the salary after
the folks that make the most money
coming out of my programs
are always drivers
always drivers
always always always drivers i don't
know what it is but i i got the proof
always uber drivers and cdl holders
out of everything out of health care out
of folks that had prior education
i don't know what it is but drivers they
they lead the way and so yeah get get
all that silly nonsense out of our heads
that
if we're coming from one industry it's
gonna be that we can't make it now
um
data is not with you
and that's why i'm saying you stick to
these three
you stick to these three
you stick to these three you have
your 100 devs you have your consulting
and you have one other thing that you
did you don't need any other history
beside those three to land a job the
individuals that use this template
literally folks that we've talked about
in this cohort like the folks that i've
put on here before folks that you that
you that you know that have gone through
my other programs they've used this
template and now they're at fang
companies
like i said
can you trust me or not
it's up to you
we don't use those emotes anymore
a frog
xqc wrecked our our our our place no
more
no longer in this chat i'm joshing it
but
they did cause us a lot of pain
[Laughter]
can we ban emotes
alrighty so we've looked at the example
what i want to do now
is knowing what we know
knowing what we know
yeah it's like it's engagement thank you
for the engagement
no so the cool thing like the like the
the streamers doing what they did
was was cool because it it made the
steak like it made it like
it made it fun right like because like
it made it made you feel things
and so as much as you hate it being
wiped out it's like that's what like
brought the community like your smaller
community back together right like
having to rebuild and like fight it off
like that's what made it that's what
made it fun and so
it's all yeah it united us like so you
got you gotta take the good with the bad
right
and it was good promo
every good story needs a villain exactly
all right
so we looked at this look at this resume
i answered your questions about it
remember this won't be our only time we
look at resumes and this will be i just
need these ideas to percolate now and
then we'll have a full two classes on
how to do all of our professional stuff
um for
the uh for the for the hunt um location
for all this stuff you can just do
remote um some folks put la but i think
it's better just to put remote if you're
putting 100 devs
rockefeller nerd said i used this
template and got my job my cousin in
college used this template and got the
job it does the job thank you
i love that thank you for sharing
rockefeller
what if i'm in la then put la